Ideas/00001-Linux Logo Redesign.md, before:


00001 - Linux Logo Redesign
===========================

Motivation
----------

<img src="http://i.imgur.com/Ge4xmaw.png" align="right"/>

The idea came to me when I seriously thought about the current Linux logo\*. It's cute and iconic! Look at that cute guy. He sure makes a good mascot! Maybe not so much a good logo, though. As a logo, it's hideous. It stands out from the other logos in a bad way. It's way too detailed; **a child should be able to draw your logo**. Worst of all, it looks terrible at icon size or in monochrome. So, I set out to make a logo I think would fit Linux better in the modern age.

Others agree:

 - [Cyberpunk Librarian - _Linux and Its Image Problem_](http://cyberpunklibrarian.com/linux-and-its-image-problem/)
 - [OMG! Ubuntu! - _Meet ‘The Other Linux Logo’, A Modern Take on Tux_](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2016/10/alternative-tux-logo)
 - [Ecogex - The Other Linux Logo](http://ecogex.com/the-other-linux-logo/)
 - [/r/Linux - _Any takers for this logo? Any comments?_](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/4emzy4/any_takers_for_this_logo_any_comments/)
 - And many more...

Additionally, there were once contests for the Linux logo, and I can't find them or their results anywhere online. All that survived was Tux, who [didn't win any of them](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tux#Origins).

<sup>*There's apparently no official logo, just the mascot, Tux.</sup>


Current State
-------------

> First off, I know my idea is very non-standard and diverges completely from the expectations of a Linux logo, but that's kinda the idea; This is something I built from scratch without any preconceived notions of what a Linux logo is or should be. With that out of the way, here is what I came up with:

My reinvention is very symbolic. The above image has a background and text to illustrate the idea behind it, but those aren't part of my logo idea.
Linux is a huge thing these days; almost all servers run it.  So the logo should convey that with **one large shape**.
The big difference that got it where it is, however, is that there is a huge community behind it, powering it and fixing it and extending it, so there should be **smaller shapes complimenting the large one**. These should be atop it, since Linux itself is just a kernel; the basis for so much more.

I believe There should be three smaller shapes representing the three major concepts behind Linux:

 1. **Flexibility**&ensp;&ndash;&ensp;It can be modified and used by everyday consumers, big businesses, hackers, children, et al.
 2. **Open-source**&ensp;&ndash;&ensp;The kernel source code is free for anyone to download, modify, and resubmit
 3. **Free**&ensp;&ndash;&ensp;As in freedom, and as in beer. Linux has no restrictions on how you can use it, neither politically nor monetarily

This is the current idea; a diamond, which further implies the potential perfection that can come from an experienced polisher:

![Outline of a diamond profile, which is comprised of one large downward-pointing right-isoscoles-triangle topped by three similar triangles of alternating directions.](https://i.imgur.com/WUF65mN.png)

Here it is in a pretty little example which labels each part:

![The above outline stylized so it's atop a semitranslucent (vibrant light) fill, further atop a photo of a sky with Godrays.](https://i.imgur.com/6X5XRqq.jpg)

Note that the background is _Below Clouds_ by kobinho, a wallpaper available in Ubuntu 16.10. The fonts used are Ubuntu Light and Ubuntu Condensed.


Advantages
----------

### Scaling ###

This logo scales very nicely, much nicer than the traditional image of Tux. It is also intrinsicly black-and-white, whereas Tux requires color and does not have any official (or pretty) monochrome variant.

Here's a table showing this:

|          Series | 16px  | 24px  | 32px  | 64px  |
| --------------: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
|    My redesign: | ![](https://i.imgur.com/9gPe3EG.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/sg0r4ly.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/dyNcZ04.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/7tMz1K8.png) |
|   Tux (classic) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/ndSvY51.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/rTwUhfy.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/Xr05GGW.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/1BRUVJh.png) |
|      Tux (flat) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/or4ykeb.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/NLbczXm.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/wN7jzfp.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/lBImrhN.png) |
| Tux (flat mono) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/p8pIA6k.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/7TidoxU.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/UPsvhKs.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/TuE9uiI.png) |


### Computation ###

It's super easy to compute! As an SVG it's just a single path of 10 points: `M 4.5,3.5 8,7 11.5,3.5 M 1,7 H 15 M 1,7 8,14 15,7 11.5,3.5 h -7 z`, or `m 4.5,3.5 3.5,4 3.5,-4 m -11,4 h 15 m -15,0 7.5,6.5 7.5,-6.5 -4,-4 h -7 z` for very small sizes.


### Creative Possibilities ###

As I showed above, this can be used in more creative ways than just showing it plain. Here are a few more examples:

|      Separated solid triangles       |
| :----------------------------------: |
| ![](https://i.imgur.com/ubHmUN1.png) |
| This is bold, like a stamp or an alien insignia, implying power over grace |

Disadvantages
-------------

 - It's brand new; There's no inherent recognition
 - Everyone loves Tux. He's so cute!


// TODO:
--------

 - Vet against more people in the open-source community
 - More creative ideas~

Commit message:

00001 - Added 1980s-style CD case art
Also increased Separated Solid Triangles size from 256p to 512p to match

Ideas/00001-Linux Logo Redesign.md, after:


00001 - Linux Logo Redesign
===========================

Motivation
----------

<img src="http://i.imgur.com/Ge4xmaw.png" align="right"/>

The idea came to me when I seriously thought about the current Linux logo\*. It's cute and iconic! Look at that cute guy. He sure makes a good mascot! Maybe not so much a good logo, though. As a logo, it's hideous. It stands out from the other logos in a bad way. It's way too detailed; **a child should be able to draw your logo**. Worst of all, it looks terrible at icon size or in monochrome. So, I set out to make a logo I think would fit Linux better in the modern age.

Others agree:

 - [Cyberpunk Librarian - _Linux and Its Image Problem_](http://cyberpunklibrarian.com/linux-and-its-image-problem/)
 - [OMG! Ubuntu! - _Meet ‘The Other Linux Logo’, A Modern Take on Tux_](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2016/10/alternative-tux-logo)
 - [Ecogex - The Other Linux Logo](http://ecogex.com/the-other-linux-logo/)
 - [/r/Linux - _Any takers for this logo? Any comments?_](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/4emzy4/any_takers_for_this_logo_any_comments/)
 - And many more...

Additionally, there were once contests for the Linux logo, and I can't find them or their results anywhere online. All that survived was Tux, who [didn't win any of them](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tux#Origins).

<sup>*There's apparently no official logo, just the mascot, Tux.</sup>


Current State
-------------

> First off, I know my idea is very non-standard and diverges completely from the expectations of a Linux logo, but that's kinda the idea; This is something I built from scratch without any preconceived notions of what a Linux logo is or should be. With that out of the way, here is what I came up with:

My reinvention is very symbolic. The above image has a background and text to illustrate the idea behind it, but those aren't part of my logo idea.
Linux is a huge thing these days; almost all servers run it.  So the logo should convey that with **one large shape**.
The big difference that got it where it is, however, is that there is a huge community behind it, powering it and fixing it and extending it, so there should be **smaller shapes complimenting the large one**. These should be atop it, since Linux itself is just a kernel; the basis for so much more.

I believe There should be three smaller shapes representing the three major concepts behind Linux:

 1. **Flexibility**&ensp;&ndash;&ensp;It can be modified and used by everyday consumers, big businesses, hackers, children, et al.
 2. **Open-source**&ensp;&ndash;&ensp;The kernel source code is free for anyone to download, modify, and resubmit
 3. **Free**&ensp;&ndash;&ensp;As in freedom, and as in beer. Linux has no restrictions on how you can use it, neither politically nor monetarily

This is the current idea; a diamond, which further implies the potential perfection that can come from an experienced polisher:

![Outline of a diamond profile, which is comprised of one large downward-pointing right-isoscoles-triangle topped by three similar triangles of alternating directions.](https://i.imgur.com/WUF65mN.png)

Here it is in a pretty little example which labels each part:

![The above outline stylized so it's atop a semitranslucent (vibrant light) fill, further atop a photo of a sky with Godrays.](https://i.imgur.com/6X5XRqq.jpg)

Note that the background is _Below Clouds_ by kobinho, a wallpaper available in Ubuntu 16.10. The fonts used are Ubuntu Light and Ubuntu Condensed.


Advantages
----------

### Scaling ###

This logo scales very nicely, much nicer than the traditional image of Tux. It is also intrinsicly black-and-white, whereas Tux requires color and does not have any official (or pretty) monochrome variant.

Here's a table showing this:

|          Series | 16px  | 24px  | 32px  | 64px  |
| --------------: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
|    My redesign: | ![](https://i.imgur.com/9gPe3EG.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/sg0r4ly.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/dyNcZ04.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/7tMz1K8.png) |
|   Tux (classic) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/ndSvY51.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/rTwUhfy.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/Xr05GGW.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/1BRUVJh.png) |
|      Tux (flat) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/or4ykeb.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/NLbczXm.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/wN7jzfp.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/lBImrhN.png) |
| Tux (flat mono) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/p8pIA6k.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/7TidoxU.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/UPsvhKs.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/TuE9uiI.png) |


### Computation ###

It's super easy to compute! As an SVG it's just a single path of 10 points: `M 4.5,3.5 8,7 11.5,3.5 M 1,7 H 15 M 1,7 8,14 15,7 11.5,3.5 h -7 z`, or `m 4.5,3.5 3.5,4 3.5,-4 m -11,4 h 15 m -15,0 7.5,6.5 7.5,-6.5 -4,-4 h -7 z` for very small sizes.


### Creative Possibilities ###

As I showed above, this can be used in more creative ways than just showing it plain. Here are a few more examples:

|      Separated solid triangles       |         1980s-style CD case          |
| :----------------------------------: | :----------------------------------: |
| ![](https://i.imgur.com/axbMG61.png) | ![](https://i.imgur.com/LEXE1Je.png) |
| This variant is bold, like a stamp or an alien insignia, implying power over grace | The super-simple shape lets it seamlessly blend into the art styles of any era! |

#### Credits ####

 - Grid-and-lightning background by unknown artist
 - [Streamster](https://www.behance.net/gallery/24474623/Streamster-Typeface) by [Youssef-Habchi](https://www.behance.net/Youssef-Habchi)
 - [Alien Encounters](http://www.shyfoundry.com/fonts/shareware/sfalienenc.html) by [ShyFoundry.com](http://www.shyfoundry.com/)

Disadvantages
-------------

 - It's brand new; There's no inherent recognition
 - Everyone loves Tux. He's so cute!


// TODO:
--------

 - Vet against more people in the open-source community
 - More creative ideas~
